README.md, before:

# Culinary API


## About

The Culinary API is designed to help users share their favorite recipes and explore new ones.This project is implemented using Python Django Rest Framework. This project uses db.sqlite3 as it's database. I decided to work on this project because I love cooking and eating delicious food and I hope to share my love of food with everyone.


## Installation
To get a local copy up and running, follow these steps:

- Clone the repository:
```
git clone https://github.com/onise2001/culinary_api.git
```
- Navigate to project directory:
```
cd culinary_api
```
- Install required modules by running the following command:
```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

- Run migrations (python3 if on linux):
```
python manage.py migrate
```
- Run server (python3 if on linux):
```
python manage.py runserver
```

## Usage and API endpoints
See swagger documentaion for information about api endpoints.
```
/swagger
```
```
/redoc
```

# OR

## Endpoints
- **List recipes:** By sending a GET request to this api endpoint, ```/recipe/```, you will get an array of all recipes currently in the database.

- **View recipe:** By sending a GET request to this api endpoint, ```/recipe/{id}```, you will get an instance of the recipe with that id.

- **Create recipe:** By sending a POST request to this api endpoint, ```/recipe/``` , with correct request body, a new recipe will be created and added to the database if you are authenticated.

- **Edit recipe:** By sending a PUT request to this api endpoint, ```/recipe/{id}``` , with correct request body, a recipe with that id will be edited with the information you provided in the request body if you have the permission to do so.

- **Delete recipe:** By sending a DELETE request to this api endpoint, ```/recipe/{id}``` ,  a recipe with that id will be deleted from the database if you have the permission to do so.

- **Rate recipe:** By sending a PATCH request to this api endpoint, ```/rate/{id}``` , with correct request body, a recipe with that id will get rated by you if you are authenticated.

- **Recommendations:** By sending a GET request to this api endpoint, ```/rec``` , you will get recommendations about recipes based on recipes you have uploaded if you are authenticated.

#### Filters

- **Name:** By sending a GET request to this api endpoint, ```/recipe?name={recipe_name}```, you will get an array of all recipes that have name fields that contain the name provided.








## Authentication
This project uses django's built-in Token Authentication for registration and login purposes. Users can register as Chefs or Regular users.

- **Registration:** By sending a POST request to this api endpoint, ```/auth/signup/``` , with correct request body, a new Regular User will be created and added to the database.

- **Registration as Chef:** By sending a POST request to this api endpoint, ```/auth/chef/``` , with correct request body, a new Chef User will be created and added to the database.

- **Login:** By sending a POST request to this api endpoint, ```/auth/login/``` , with correct request body, you will get an Authorization Token.

#### Regular Users have following fields:
- Username
- Email
- Password

#### Chef's have all regular user fields, plus:
- Background
- Speciality




## Permissions:

- **CanEdit:** This permission class checsk if the user trying to edit the recipe is the user that created it, if it is the same user then edit of the recipe goes as planned, if not then error message is provided.

- **CanDelete:** This permission class checsk if the user trying to delete the recipe is the user that created it OR if the user is a member of the staff, if it is the user that created the recipe or a staff user then deletion goes as planned, if not then error message is provided.



## Outro:
I am glad you have shown interest in my project. I hope you have a good time using the API I designed, Good Luck.

Commit message:

Added venv creation to readme file

README.md, after:

# Culinary API


## About

The Culinary API is designed to help users share their favorite recipes and explore new ones.This project is implemented using Python Django Rest Framework. This project uses db.sqlite3 as it's database. I decided to work on this project because I love cooking and eating delicious food and I hope to share my love of food with everyone.


## Installation
To get a local copy up and running, follow these steps:

- Clone the repository:
```
git clone https://github.com/onise2001/culinary_api.git
```
- Navigate to project directory:
```
cd culinary_api
```
- Create virtual environment with the following coomand (python3 if on linux):
```
python -m venv venv
```

- Install required modules by running the following command:
```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

- Run migrations (python3 if on linux):
```
python manage.py migrate
```
- Run server (python3 if on linux):
```
python manage.py runserver
```

## Usage and API endpoints
See swagger documentaion for information about api endpoints.
```
/swagger
```
```
/redoc
```

# OR

## Endpoints
- **List recipes:** By sending a GET request to this api endpoint, ```/recipe/```, you will get an array of all recipes currently in the database.

- **View recipe:** By sending a GET request to this api endpoint, ```/recipe/{id}```, you will get an instance of the recipe with that id.

- **Create recipe:** By sending a POST request to this api endpoint, ```/recipe/``` , with correct request body, a new recipe will be created and added to the database if you are authenticated.

- **Edit recipe:** By sending a PUT request to this api endpoint, ```/recipe/{id}``` , with correct request body, a recipe with that id will be edited with the information you provided in the request body if you have the permission to do so.

- **Delete recipe:** By sending a DELETE request to this api endpoint, ```/recipe/{id}``` ,  a recipe with that id will be deleted from the database if you have the permission to do so.

- **Rate recipe:** By sending a PATCH request to this api endpoint, ```/rate/{id}``` , with correct request body, a recipe with that id will get rated by you if you are authenticated.

- **Recommendations:** By sending a GET request to this api endpoint, ```/rec``` , you will get recommendations about recipes based on recipes you have uploaded if you are authenticated.

#### Filters

- **Name:** By sending a GET request to this api endpoint, ```/recipe?name={recipe_name}```, you will get an array of all recipes that have name fields that contain the name provided.








## Authentication
This project uses django's built-in Token Authentication for registration and login purposes. Users can register as Chefs or Regular users.

- **Registration:** By sending a POST request to this api endpoint, ```/auth/signup/``` , with correct request body, a new Regular User will be created and added to the database.

- **Registration as Chef:** By sending a POST request to this api endpoint, ```/auth/chef/``` , with correct request body, a new Chef User will be created and added to the database.

- **Login:** By sending a POST request to this api endpoint, ```/auth/login/``` , with correct request body, you will get an Authorization Token.

#### Regular Users have following fields:
- Username
- Email
- Password

#### Chef's have all regular user fields, plus:
- Background
- Speciality




## Permissions:

- **CanEdit:** This permission class checsk if the user trying to edit the recipe is the user that created it, if it is the same user then edit of the recipe goes as planned, if not then error message is provided.

- **CanDelete:** This permission class checsk if the user trying to delete the recipe is the user that created it OR if the user is a member of the staff, if it is the user that created the recipe or a staff user then deletion goes as planned, if not then error message is provided.



## Outro:
I am glad you have shown interest in my project. I hope you have a good time using the API I designed, Good Luck.
